REGINA MEREDITH:
Now we're really
going to go into what God looks
like through the Indigenous
lenses.
PAUL WALLIS: It's not a story
of domination and slavery
and colonization.
These are stories that are of
powerful beings here to assist.
SEAN O'LAOIRE: In
the Gaeltic system,
light and dark are not enemies.
Dark is the fertile fecund
womb on which all life emerges.
REGINA: Yes.
WALLIS: There's a nonhuman
layer to the human story
all around the planet.
O'LAOIRE: The Caol Áit is a
thin place It's a place where
the veil between the mystic
and the mundane is diaphanous.
REGINA: I want to see
these fairy mounts.
I want to connect.
WALLIS: The ancestral stories,
the Indigenous stories
of the planet, I
hear an invitation
to explore how much better a
human experience is possible.
What are we really capable of?
REGINA: In our last trialogue,
Sean O'Laoire, Paul Wallis,
and I discussed the way in which
the gods of the Old Testament
described themselves as humans
and the events of the day.
On the whole, these gods
were a punishing lot
that resulted in our
ancestors, and many of us
today, feeling
unworthy or less than.
Today, we're going to talk
about the gods of old.
They didn't seem to have this
effect on Earth's Indigenous
populations.
Welcome back, both of you.
It was a fabulous
last conversation.
Now we're really
going to go into what
God looks like
through another lens,
through the Indigenous
lenses of the Indigenous
people of the world.
One person said, the Africans
have no low self-esteem as poor
as they are, living
so close to the land.
So we're going to go to a story
that you'd like to share, Paul,
regarding Mother Teresa's
experience in London.
WALLIS: Good day.
Thank you.
Well, Mother Teresa came to
London in the early 1990s.
And I remember her speaking
about her experience.
She was so shocked
by what she found.
Now, Mother Teresa
had spent her life
working in Kolkata, a very
poor part of the planet,
among the poorest of the local
people, the untouchables.
And in the caste
system that operates
in that part of the
world, the untouchables
are regarded as
people of no value.
You don't look at them.
You certainly don't touch
them, hence, the name.
You would think that
people at the bottom
of the pile like that
would have low self-esteem.
And yet, when Mother
Teresa came to London,
she said she was
shocked to experience
the collapse of self-esteem
among the teenagers of Great
Britain.
She said she'd never
seen anything like it.
I was blown away by that.
How could the self-esteem of
teenagers in wealthy Great
Britain be lower than that of
the untouchables in Kolkata?
But I have to reflect that if
the nuclear family is broken
down, if your extended
family is broken down,
if your civic family
is broken down,
where do you go from there?
In the worldview
that I grew up with,
that was really shaped
by Orthodox Christianity,
unfortunately, if you're on
your own, you're on your own.
You might pray to the
almighty for help and support.
But because of the
Almighty's mysterious ways,
help might not come.
And then you really
are on your own.
Whereas in the world view of so
many of our Indigenous peoples
around the world,
you were never alone.
The universe is a
universe of resources.
Every human individual has
an invisible support team
to help them deal with
whatever is happening to them.
And so there's
always that attitude
of looking to the universe
for help and support.
And there isn't that
feeling of I am worthless,
I have nobody's attention
that was clearly
the affliction of
British teenagers
that so shocked Mother Teresa.
REGINA: I have to say when
I spent some time in India,
and I was surrounded
by these children
that you're speaking of, and
they were smiling, kicking
things around in
the street together,
laughing, playing jokes on
each other, and so forth.
And I flew into
London from there.
And the dourness
of the children who
aren't allowed to
speak to strangers,
don't wish to speak
to strangers, just
this kind of sullen attitudes
of the people in general,
but the children, in particular.
I was most struck by that very
thing you just talked about,
coming back from the colorful
life in India into one that was
much more shrouded in grey.
O'LAOIRE: Yeah.
REGINA: And I love London.
WALLIS: That's very true.
REGINA: I love London.
WALLIS: Well, me too.
But you feel it as a depression.
REGINA: Yes, very much.
WALLIS: That low
self-esteem among the people
comes across as a depression.
REGINA: And just hurried
and not really even engaging
with one another anywhere.
Even a simple thing
like struggling
to get a big suitcase
up these stairs, no one
could be bothered to
say, can I help you?
It was just shocking
after India,
where everyone was curious
and looking you in the eye
and ready to help.
So thank you for
sharing that story.
Sean.
O'LAOIRE: I had pretty
much the same experience.
I spent 14 years in Kenya.
The people are
extraordinary there.
The politicians are corrupt
like every place else.
So I actually got
kicked out of Kenya
after 14 years for work I
was doing in social justice
after a few meetings with the
president at the time, Daniel
Toroitich arap Moi.
I was dragged before a
District Security Council
and given 48 hours to leave.
And so I spent a year in London
when I came out of Kenya.
And I can honestly say it
was the most unhappy year
of my life, having
come from the joy
and the love and the support
and the laughter of Kenya
into London with
the dour people,
nobody making eye
contact, whatsoever.
I stayed there for a year.
I was studying human psychology.
But it was easily the most
unhappy year of my life.
Then I came to the
States finally.
But the change from equatorial
Kenya and loving laughing
families to London was awesome.
The only one thing I saw
was that it's interesting,
if you put a camera
in front of a European
or an Australian or an American,
they'll break into a smile.
REGINA: Right.
O'LAOIRE: They'll be
on their best behavior.
And the rest of the time,
they're dour, anxious.
You go to Africa, they're
laughing all the time.
You put a camera
in front of them,
they go, where are you from?
All of a sudden,
something was expected.
This is what I
expected-- formality.
But the rest of it,
they're laughing.
So it's a total
180-degree shift.
Yeah.
REGINA: Thank you, both,
for those reflections.
It seems that we've all
had the same experience
of going from color
and life in a heartbeat
to something so repressed.
And it could have
been the same flying
into JFK or a lot
of other places
too, not trying to
just single out London.
So now we need to start looking
at the underpinnings of that.
And I know you, we have
stories to share from Africa.
And you, Paul, have
stories to share
from not only your in-laws,
but also from around the world
because you started chasing the
story of the gods in Indigenous
cultures.
So let's start, Paul,
with some of what
you learned as this incredibly
common kind of backdrop story
too in the beginning from
the Indigenous tribes.
WALLIS: Well, if you listen for
the stories of the beginning
and the stories of the gods
for many African peoples,
you hear what's really a very
exciting and affirming story.
So if you go to the Edo
people or the Yoruba
people of Southern
Nigeria and Benin,
you will hear their story
of first contact, which
is of Osanobua, the almighty
one above the waters,
descending from the heavens,
to help rehabilitate
our planet after there's
been a natural disaster.
And like in so-called
creation stories,
it begins on a planet that's
devastated and flooded.
Osanobua comes from out
of the heavens on a chain,
they say-- well, that's
obviously their technology
as a framework
for what they saw.
So we would think wormhole
comes down from outer space
to help the planet recover,
to rehabilitate the land,
and then to work with
the people who were here,
to support them in
re-establishing themselves
on the land.
So the beginning story,
the first contact story
is of nurture.
And then we have
the early leaders
who stayed with us,
who were these--
well, if I say extraterrestrial,
suddenly, it sounds scary.
But if I say Ogiso, well,
these were the leaders
who helped us from the heavens.
And after they had governed
human society for a while,
they hand over to the
Oba, who are simply
the leaders, the human leaders
and the kings and queens who
follow.
So this is an incredibly
powerful, positive empowering
story, a benevolent presence,
helping us, nurturing us,
and then handing
over power to us.
It's not a story of domination
and slavery and colonization.
It is nurturing and helping
us and getting us going.
That's the whole
beginning of the world
as we know it, according
to those African stories.
And then you can go to Nigeria.
You'll hear the Efik
story of Abbasi and Atai,
who, again, nurtured
humanity and built us up
until we were a civilization
on planet Earth.
You listen to the
Zulu story and you've
got this mysterious entity,
female entity, Mbaba Mwana
Waresa, who arrives and upgrades
us to the point where we now
have agriculture.
So we can now build
towns and cities
and become a civilization.
So these are stories
running through history
that are of powerful
beings here to assist.
So those are the gods
in those stories.
And then you have the
stories I mentioned before.
I mentioned the mummy water
stories from out of Ghana--
REGINA: Yes.
WALLIS: --of this other
presence of advanced beings
who are here because
they want some of what
we have in their gene pool.
They think we're fabulous.
But there is an
arrangement in which
they help us and we help them.
It's not one of these
shock horror $50
from the "National
Enquirer" stories.
It's a profound experience
that goes all around the world.
And it's this mutual arrangement
that's being described.
Now I might say, people
who experience that, still
might have a problem explaining
that to their relatives
when they get back from an
experience of abduction.
But that's the context
that the African peoples
have for those stories.
And then it flows on into
what we were talking about
in our first
session, where there
are Indigenous stories
of spirits who assist
each one of us in the present.
And very often, the
shamanic healers
are a little bit vague about
who or what these spirits are,
other than they're here
to help and support us.
And as long as you
remain a [NON-ENGLISH],,
as long as you remain sovereign,
you keep your personal
autonomy, you can expect to
be getting good information.
It's not that you
believe everything
that comes into your mind or
everything a spirit tells you,
you're in charge of yourself.
And you weigh it up
and you take the advice
you think is helpful.
You take the action that
you feel is positive.
And so you put all that together
from the very beginning right
to you and me.
The picture is that we swim
in a sea of company that
is there to affirm and
support and help us.
REGINA: Thank you for that.
Beautiful.
And now you have your
version, not just in Africa.
I want you to share
your version, Sean,
of the helpers,
the others, Irish,
in terms of Irish legend.
O'LAOIRE: Great.
So in Irish mythology,
there's this crossover point
between what we call the Tuatha
De Danann, which literally
means the people of the
goddess Danu on the one hand
and what we call the
Milesians, better known
as the Celts on the other hand.
Somewhere around 600 BC in
that time period allegedly,
the Celts and the
Milesians visited Ireland.
And there were two great
battles in the same location,
a place called Moyturey.
And the Celts defeated
the Tuatha De Danann
in both battles.
So there was an arrangement
made between the two,
that they would divide the
land of Ireland into two.
And that the Celts,
there was the one
who get the North and
the other got the South,
and one got the East and
the other got the West.
Their agreement was that
the Celts would get Ireland,
above the ground, and that
Tuatha De Danann would
inherit Ireland under the
ground and under the oceans.
So that was the agreement.
And so the Tuatha
De Danann shape
shifted and became
known as the fairy folk.
And they live underground
and under water.
And so you have a lot
of stories about--
there's a famous Irish place in
Irish mythology called Tír fo
Thuinn, which literally means
the land under the waves.
And there's a place
called Tír na nÓg,
which means the land
of the ever young.
And so the Tuatha De Danann were
long-lived-- very long-lived--
much more so than the humans.
And so there's this
interface between that
goes on right up to the time
I was a child in Ireland.
All these stories of
commingling between them that I
heard from my grandfather.
And so when you look at
it you have the goddesses
in that storytelling are
the archetypes of nature,
and the gods are the
archetypes of culture.
And in the Celtic
Tuatha De Danann system,
nature and nurture
are dance partners.
They're not enemies
of each other,
like they are in the
West very, very often.
So they dance.
So they're archetypes.
And there's actually
a ceremony that when
the high king of Ireland
was being installed,
he had to marry the land.
And if he proved to
be a good husband,
the land would be fertile.
If he proved to
be a poor husband,
there'd be famine times.
So there's this
constant dance that
goes on between the goddesses,
representing nature,
and the gods
representing culture.
And you get that indicated the
dance between light and dark.
And again, in the Celtic system,
light and dark are not enemies.
Dark is not evil.
Dark is the fertile fecund
womb on which all life emerges.
REGINA: Yes.
O'LAOIRE: And so it's
just like the Hebrews,
the Celts began their
day in the evening.
When the sun went down, that
was the beginning of the next 24
hour cycle of day.
REGINA: A gestation period.
O'LAOIRE: Exactly.
The same with the year.
Samhain on the 31st of
October was the beginning
of the dark time of the year and
the Beltane on the 1st of May
was the beginning of the light.
But one was birthing the other.
It wasn't that the light
was being suppressed
by the darkness, but that
the darkness was giving birth
to the light.
And that in some senses were
like the sperm and the egg
version.
So again and again and
again in Irish mythology,
you get this interface
between them.
And as Paul was
mentioning, both sides
needed to kind of
upgrade their stock.
So you have this notion of
what's called in Ireland,
the Shiofra.
And the Shiofra is a
changeling, where occasionally,
human babies would be stolen
and replaced with look-alikes.
Or sometimes, human beings
would abduct selkies.
Selkies were a kind
of seal people,
are half-fish,
half-human people,
mermaids, merman, whatsoever.
REGINA: Mermaids, yes.
O'LAOIRE: And sometimes,
they came onshore
and they discarded
their spacesuits.
There's this great
story, for instance,
my grandfather
told me about a guy
they called Thady Rua O'Dowd.
"Rua" in Ireland
just means redheaded.
So a redheaded Thady O'Dowd.
And he's walking
along the beach.
He's just been made
the chief of his clan.
So he has to get married.
You can't be a chief if
you cannot be married.
So he's finding it
difficult to find
a wife that he wants to marry.
And he's walking around
the beach thinking,
and he sees this mermaid
who has come ashore,
and she discarded her tail.
And she's combing
her long tresses.
So he grabs the suit
and he hides it.
And now she can't get
back into the ocean.
So they fall in love.
They get married
and have seven kids.
But if she ever finds her tail,
she'd go back to the ocean.
And one day, one of her
kids is messing around
and he finds the tail.
Look, mommy, look what I found.
So mommy goes down to the
ocean, puts the tail on,
she has seven kids.
She can't take the
seven with her.
She turns five of
them into rocks--
very famous rocks
in the Irish coast--
grabs two more under her arms
and goes back into the sea.
So you have abduction
happening on both sides.
REGINA: Yes.
O'LAOIRE: And
you've got the need
to kind of upgrade the
species by not being stuck
in a small little gene pool.
So you get sea of roses when
the fairies abducted human baby
and replaced it
with a lookalike.
And the selkies were
returning the favor
by stealing mermaids and
marrying them on land.
REGINA: Fascinating.
And these are stories that
exist in other cultures
too, even in modern ufology.
They talk about unidentified
submerged cultures,
bases, people.
They come out of the sea.
And as Paul, you
told me, oftentimes,
these abductions
that you became aware
of happen along the coast
lines, where something
has come from the sea, right?
WALLIS: Yes, that's right.
And sometimes, other large
bodies of water as well.
If you go to South
America, you'll
hear that version
of water whales,
you'll hear that version.
REGINA: Yeah,
that's fascinating.
WALLIS: All the same
elements are there.
It's incredible.
REGINA: It is, all
over the world.
And here, today, we're
left with something
that we call fairy
mounds, which--
I'm headed to Ireland soon.
I want to see
these fairy mounds.
I want to connect
with these beings.
And as you say,
these were the ones
that had won the battle
for the underground
and still exist today.
And we call the wee folk, right?
And that's a wide
variety of entities
that are in a slightly
different dimension, right?
O'LAOIRE: Multi life forms.
REGINA: Multi life forms.
O'LAOIRE: It's kind
of a catchall phrase
for that which is not human.
REGINA: For a not human.
OK, so from this, this
is very much still
part of the Irish culture.
And if you don't
mind, both of you,
you told me about a lovely song.
Tell me what it's called--
Shortcut--
O'LAOIRE: Shortcut
to the Rosses.
REGINA: --to the Rosses.
O'LAOIRE: So the story is this.
It's called "The
Shortcut to the Rosses."
Rosses is an Irish term for
a wood, a wood or a forest.
And this a story of a man taking
a shortcut through the woods.
And the danger in
going in woodland--
a wood is a thin place.
In Gaelic, we have this
phrase called the Caol Áit.
And the Caol Áit
is a thin place.
It's a place where the
veil between the mystic
and the mundane is diaphanous
between the secular
and the sacred.
And so a certain spots, woods,
mountaintops, lakes, as Paul
just mentioned, the sea is.
And so being in
these places, you
have to be really,
really careful.
And there's this guy going
through, taking a shortcut,
and he's going through
a woodland area.
And he meets this
beautiful looking woman
with these long,
long, shiny tresses,
and falls in love with her.
And so they come together.
And then he discovers
after they have
parted that she's literally
taken her heart away from him.
And now he's really,
really afraid.
And the last verse
of it says, simply--
(SINGING) By the short
cut to the rosses,
'tis I'll go and never more.
Lest she should also steal my
soul who stole my heart before.
Lest she steal my
soul and crush it
like a dead leaf in her hand.
For the shortcut to the rosses
is the way to fairyland.
So having lost his
heart to her, he's
afraid he's going to lose
his soul to her as well.
So he's not going to
go back there anymore.
So there were some
songs which are actually
banned by the church.
There was another
one, a beautiful one,
called Cailin Deas
Crúite na mBó,
which means the
beautiful young milkmaid,
a woman who milks the cows.
And the story is that there
was a priest on a sick call,
very, very late, one night,
that a parishioner is dying
and he has to rush
to attend them.
And again, he's taking a
shortcut through the forest.
And hears this
extraordinary fairy music.
And he stops for a
moment to listen to it,
and then moves on.
And he gets to the house
and the man has died.
And he realizes there's
been missing time.
He's been in the forest
for five or six hours.
So he cursed the song.
And so literally, when I
was a child in Ireland,
there was no permission to play
that song on national radio.
Cailin Deas Crúite na mBó.
REGINA: So this is still
taken very seriously.
O'LAOIRE: This was in the
1950s when I was a small kid.
That song could not be played
on what was called RTE, radio,
television, the Irish radio.
The church had banned it
because of what it did.
So you have to be really,
really careful of fairy music
that they could intervene
at inopportune moments.
And somebody's
immortal soul could
be compromised in the process.
REGINA: Thank you for that
interesting, beautiful song.
And thank you for
singing for us.
I appreciate that.
Now Paul, we're
looking at-- when
we were talking earlier
about how these beings came
to help establish culture
and such in a dire time
after an inundation, for
example, in these stories
from all over the world,
Freddy Silva writes
about these beings
as the shining ones,
including those from Australia
and also in New Zealand,
and all over the world.
But let's go back to Africa now
because that's the story of you
say great excitement and hope.
But let's talk about
your family and friends.
Now we're talking about
classic abduction,
and how her family-- how she,
her family, and the Indigenous
people feel about what
we know today refer to,
in John Mack's style,
as classic abduction.
WALLIS: Yes.
I think when we use
the word abduction,
we naturally think
someone is taken by force.
And you might never
see them again.
The experience of abductions
referenced in the Mami Wata
stories, and this is a family
of stories that's global--
it's just Ghana where I first
heard it, is different to that
because people meet these
other beings often on the beach
or near a body of water.
And these other beings are hot.
They're drop dead
gorgeous people--
REGINA: Yes.
WALLIS: --who then persuade
the person to go with them.
Then take them by
force, persuade
them to go with
promises of advancement,
higher intelligence,
strengthened health.
They'll come back, they'll
be more prosperous,
we're going to have
a wonderful time,
you're going to see things
that are unimaginable.
All these promises are made.
And so the person goes, and
then is gone for several years.
So the family we know, this
happened to a girl in Anloga,
in the Keta district of
the Volta region of Ghana.
She was missing for three
years, no communication
with the family.
When she returned,
it took a long time
before she was willing to tell
her family the story of where
she'd been.
They had assumed
she's been kidnapped,
she's been trafficked.
Maybe it was a failed elopement
we knew nothing about.
But that wasn't the story.
Finally, she opened
up to her mom.
And she said, the
reason I couldn't
contact you is because I was
held in an underwater base.
There was no way I
could contact you.
I was used for hybridization.
They made me have children
while I was there.
And then the final piece
of information-- the people
who held me were not human.
They were Mami Wata.
And so every element
of that story
repeats around the world,
where people are enticed,
taken with promises
of advancement.
They're used to hybridisation,
and then they're
returned often healthier
than when they went away.
It's still a very difficult
story to return with.
You come home with
that story is not
going to help you win
favor with your family
or get you a better job
or anything like that.
If you tell that story,
coming back to Kenya,
for instance, where they have
a long tradition of this,
the Maharani
tradition, you're still
more likely to be
medicated than promoted--
REGINA: Or hospitalized
WALLIS: --if you come
after that story.
Or hospitalized.
And one of the hardest
to process aspects
of the story for
the relatives is
when the people who were
taken, say, actually,
these other people are nice.
I actually quite like them.
It grieved me I
couldn't contact you,
but they treated me very kindly.
And you can hear that story
in Africa, the Caribbean,
the Philippines, India,
Wales, the whole of Europe
is named after a woman
who had this experience
by the name of Europa taken by
Zeus and had three children.
And one of them was
Minos, the Minoan culture,
named after him.
This is all taught
as history in Europe.
It's not told as fable.
And what I find
exciting is that there
are parts of the world where
the story has been maintained,
has survived the attempted
silencing of the story.
And in some parts of
the world, the story
has been recovered and
revived by people who've
gone and listen to
the locals and said,
we need to write this
down so that this will not
be forgotten.
So that's the story
of the Popol Vuh.
It's the story of Robert
Kirk in Scotland, who
heard the fae stories that Sean
was just describing and said,
we need to write this down.
And he was a very conservative
Presbyterian minister
in the 1600s, but he listened
to the locals with respect,
and believed what
they were telling him
that there's a nonhuman
layer to the human story
all around the planet.
REGINA: Thank you for that.
And Sean, I want you to comment
on from that, but I wanted--
can I tell a teensy story?
O'LAOIRE: Sure.
REGINA: So my father
is in Ireland.
So he's in a little village, and
they're staying at a B and B.
And he's asking what these
big mountains are out there.
And they're telling oh,
you stay away from there.
And he said, well, why?
He said, let me
tell you a story.
And so the person that
had the B and B said,
there was a man who came here.
He thought he could
work that land.
He came with the tractor.
You probably know
what I'm going to say.
And so he started
circling around the mound
with the tractor.
And before you knew it, it had
turned over and flipped on him
and killed him.
He said, you don't
go on the land.
So what's happening with
that land still to this day?
And then please, comment
on what Paul said.
O'LAOIRE: And so
for one thing, as I
say, they went underground,
the fairy folk,
the Tuatha De Danann.
So one of the
missing time stories
that my grandfather told me--
REGINA: Yes,
O'LAOIRE: My grandfather
was born about 3 miles
from Blarney Castle, the
famous Blarney Castle.
REGINA: Down in County Cork.
O'LAOIRE: In County Cork.
And there's a very
famous fairy folks there.
And he's living 3 or 4 miles
outside the little town
with his parents.
He's about seven years of age.
And his mother, one
evening, sent him
down to the local shop, which
is like a 2 and 1/2 mile journey
to get a pound of
sugar for the tea.
So he's wondering off, a
seven-year-old boy, goes out
to the shop, gets the pound
of sugar, he's coming back up,
and he hears music
coming from the mound.
And he's fascinated.
He grew up to be a
great musician himself.
And he's hearing
this music and he
starts going,
following the sounds,
and he sees this
slight little opening.
And he crawls
towards as a child.
And there's this huge
big amphitheater inside.
And all the fairies are
playing and dancing--
playing the fiddle or whatever.
And he's fascinated
by the music.
And all of a sudden,
one of them spots him.
He says, come in, child.
And they bring him in.
Can you play music?
And he says, I can
play the fiddle.
So they gave him a fiddle,
he's playing the fiddle.
So he's there for a few hours.
And then finally, they say,
have a cup of tea with us,
for we're having
a break for tea.
And then they discover
they have no sugar.
Damn it, we have no sugar.
Can't drink tea without
sugar in Ireland.
And he says, I have a
pound of sugar here.
My mother just sent
me to the shop.
So he shared the
sugar with them.
So finally, they say
good night to him,
and they lead him back out.
He comes back out, and the whole
village is out looking for him.
There's this big, big policeman
and his mother was in tears.
And she was afraid.
Where were you?
He thought he was away
for about three hours,
and he's been missing
for a week or so.
So maybe you should go
to the one in Blarney.
But to pick up with
what Paul was saying.
And it's interesting you talk
about the shining one's part
because the Kalenjin people
have many names for God.
One of them is
kind of a sun god.
So Asis is one name
they have for God.
And the name for
the sun is Asista.
And so when you leave, when
you get up in the morning
and you leave your home,
the first thing you do
is you spit in your two hands
and you offer it to the sun,
and you said Ye Ngai
Asista, raising the sun.
Because if you live in
the desert and you--
if you've got spittle in
your mouth, you're healthy.
So the spit in both and
thank you for the spittle
because it means I'm healthy.
So Asis is one name.
The second name was
called [NON-ENGLISH],,
which literally means
the nine-legged one.
And it comes from when you see
the sun setting in the evening,
coming through clouds and
there are shafts of light
that come down to Earth.
And they believe that
there were nine shafts.
And there literally were
a sky being-- a light
being walking upon the Earth.
And that's the way in which
it interfaced with the planet.
But the one name that they chose
when the Christian missionaries
came in, and they decided
to pick a name for God.
And the only name you
find in the Kalenjin Bible
is God is called Cheptolil.
And Chepto means a
maiden, and Lil means
wise or bright or shining.
And that's the name they chose.
And so in the Bible, in
the Kalenjin Bible, when
you and meet upon God, it's
Cheptolil, the shining maiden.
REGINA: Interesting.
O'LAOIRE: There was the
Kalenjin version of it.
REGINA: Yes.
Thank you for that.
So one thing that
does often happen,
it seems, with people
who have been away,
people who've been abducted
as we call it in common terms
today, is that when
they return, they often
have increased abilities
or gifts that they
didn't have before they left.
Do you want to comment
first on that, Paul?
WALLIS: Yes.
I've heard that firsthand
from many people who've
had close encounter
experiences, it's
part of a wider syndrome known
as acquired savant syndrome.
And the part that's more
commonly acknowledged
is the pattern of a
person having a brain
event, a stroke, a coma.
And then when they
emerge from that,
suddenly, they're having
precognitive dreams
or telepathic
connection, or they
could play an instrument
they couldn't play before,
language they couldn't speak
before they're suddenly
fluent in.
And so this is
studied by a series
of peer-reviewed scientists
all around the world.
What's less frequently
acknowledged
is that, that upgrade can often
happen after a close encounter
experience.
And so I've met a
number of people
who've had that experience,
personally, in the present.
And of course, it's a
continuation of ancient story
that says that our
contact in the deep past
was to support and upgrade us.
O'LAOIRE: Yes, I mean, when
you trawl through the Bible,
as Paul has done so beautifully
in his books, that's
what was happening again
and again and again.
REGINA: Yes.
O'LAOIRE: All the
prophetic figures,
all the charismatic
individuals, any kind
of an intervention from beyond.
Now it's just a
personal story here,
and I only remembered
this, Paul,
whenever it came to the last
chapter of your third book,
about this friend of yours
who was struck by lightning.
I had a similar event happen--
WALLIS: Yes, Taryn.
O'LAOIRE: Yeah, yeah.
I was living for seven of
the years I lived in Kenya,
I was in a little mission
called Kipchimchim.
And it was about 5
miles from a big town
called Kericho, which was
the center of the tea growing
district of Kenya.
And Kericho was about 40
miles from the biggest lake
in Africa.
It's called Lake Kisumu,
just we call Lake Victoria.
So every evening,
between 2:00 and 4:00,
we got these horrendous
lightning storms, literally,
every evening.
And sometimes, with
dire consequences.
In fact, a family close
to me was wiped out
in such an event, a
mother and five kids.
But I'm sitting in
my office one day,
and I have a telephone
line because there
was a big compound.
We had a mission.
We had African sisters.
We had a maternity
hospital, a primary school,
a secondary school, and
a hostel for physically
disabled children,
polio victims.
So I got a telephone.
And I'm sitting in my
office and I'm writing,
and I've got my elbow
on top of the phone.
And the phone has a wire
coming in from outside,
and it's stapled to the
wall, every 6 inches,
it's stapled to the wall.
And there's a big box
with the battery inside.
And all of a sudden,
the lightning
struck the line
right outside me.
And if you've ever
heard lightning,
it's like crashing glass.
It hit the wire right outside,
the wire came off the wall,
the staples are flying
across the room--
[VOCALIZING]
--like a machine gun.
The box exploded and
the battery exploded,
and I fired across the room.
I'm laying in the corner.
I have no idea whether it
was 10 seconds, 10 minutes,
or whatever.
I come to-- and my entire arm,
from my shoulder to my finger,
there's a blue
aura about 2 inches
around each side, my entire
arm and it's paralyzed.
I can't move for about an hour.
And then slowly by
slowly, I came back in.
And after I read your
book, I suddenly realized,
that was in early 1979.
By mid-1979, I started having
these really extraordinary
visions.
And I recorded a
whole bunch of them.
And I didn't put it together
until I read your book,
realizing why did it suddenly
start in the middle of 1979
that I started writing
these visionary experiences,
having these visionary
experiences that
continue to this day.
I was struck by lightning.
REGINA: And you wrote these--
you recorded your
visions, which were
beautiful Christian
mystical visions
that you had regarding Jesus,
regarding Mary Magdalene.
But when you wrote your
book, "Setting God Free,"
you had a chapter questioning
what Jesus might be,
who he may have been.
The editors felt it might
be better to eliminate it
because the book was just
a bit too heavy, right?
So they eliminated that.
So I've read that chapter
and I've read your vision.
So let's go there.
Let's talk about what you
think Jesus's prime entity he
might be.
O'LAOIRE: I go over
to Paul, instead.
REGINA: Yes.
O'LAOIRE: It's
interesting once I
came across the workings
of Zecharia Sitchin,
that Paul knows very,
very, very well.
I began to think about all
of the other characters
in the scriptures who have
kind of spectacular births.
Like as you mentioned, John
the Baptist, the Old Testament.
Many, many different
characters to childless mothers
or menopausal,
post-menopausal women.
I suddenly realized if Jesus
didn't have an earthly father,
it meant that he's
part extraterrestrial.
So I'm thinking, he's a hybrid.
There's Mary, his
mother, but his father
is an off planet being.
So I give this homily--
this is way back in
2009, in the church
that I think there's
evidence to support
that Jesus was a hybrid.
And there's Pandemonium.
REGINA: I was going to say
it didn't go down well.
O'LAOIRE: When you
started doing your state
plan for your
congregation, I thought
that Jesus was a hybrid.
Well, what does it mean?
He didn't have any
earthly father, allegedly,
so his father wasn't
terrestrial, which
means he was extraterrestrial.
REGINA: Yes.
O'LAOIRE: How are you
going to unpack that.
His father was not
a terrestrial being.
So means, he was a
hybrid of some kind.
And there's evidence
for that happening again
and again and again.
And certainly, in the
mythology of the world,
you'll find it all
over the place, even
people like Alexander the Great,
that his mother was impregnated
by Marduk, pretending to be
Philip, the wife of his mother.
So it goes right through Earth.
REGINA: You're not
getting birthday cards
from the Catholic
Church anymore.
I know.
I just want to say
this is something
a personal experience,
and then go to you, Paul.
You just mentioned
John the Baptist.
And you had written about--
because I had read "Scars of
Eden" and "Echoes of Eden."
Is that in "Echoes
of Eden" then,
where I read about
the same thing
you were just talking about,
about these virgin births,
Paul?
Just refresh me on which
book I was reading.
WALLIS: I think it's
"Scars of Eden."
REGINA: "Scars of Eden."
OK, that was "Scars of Eden."
All right.
So when you're writing
about John the Baptist,
I started flashing back.
I went to Jerusalem
and Karem, went up
to the monastery
that exists there
today, that is surrounding
a baptismal well,
which the people, they're
protecting that well.
And that monastery say that
was John the Baptist's well,
up in the kind of rugged
area outside of Ankaram.
So I went into the little--
what they don't talk about
when people visit there,
there's a cave above the well.
I went up above the
well, into the cave,
and it turned out-- this was
like the day before Christmas.
There was not one person there.
I almost felt like
it was a miracle.
So I had the cave all to myself.
And I thought, I love caves.
Check it out.
All of these pantheon of beings,
in this case, Egyptian beings,
showed up in that cave with me.
And I felt like I was at
a surprise birthday party.
I was not expecting that.
And we're downloading
the meaning of
and hieroglyphics into my aura.
Even though it
was going so fast,
I had no idea what was going on.
And this beautiful
radiant being comes down.
I was just overwhelmed
by the whole thing.
Later on called
a friend of mine,
who I did a lot of
meditation with, and I said--
because she showed
up too in the cave.
And so I said, I didn't
answer my phone earlier.
I was in the middle of
this crazy experience.
She said, yes, I
was having a dream.
I was somewhere very
strange with you.
And so anyway,
that continued on.
And that was one of the
most profound experiences
to this day for me.
But again, this was bringing in
these other beings, these God
creatures in this case
from Egyptian mythology
or well, reality.
So there we go
with some ETs again
around John the Baptist, who was
known for quite some visions,
right?
So now, let's go to
the other version
of what Sean was talking about
a moment ago because you've
had your own experiences.
WALLIS: Well, I'm absolutely
with what Sean was just saying.
And you look at the
anomalous births
in the Bible, for instance,
Jesus, John the Baptist, Isaac.
They all follow close encounters
with non-human entities.
That's our language
for it today.
In the past, we would tell it
as stories of the supernatural
or of magic.
Now we have other language.
We have artificial insemination.
We have IVF.
We have surgery in utero.
We've got other language
for these things.
But the fact is the church
has often told the story
of Jesus' birth as if it's a
unique story, but it isn't.
It's the same as his
cousin's story, for a start.
Both mothers, they're not going
to have children, naturally.
Mary, we're told, is a virgin.
Elizabeth, we're told,
is post menopause.
They have close encounters.
They have very
significant babies--
people who are highly
intelligent, highly conscious.
We've got a story,
which I believe
is a story of human origins
with Abraham, Sarah, and Isaac.
Sarah is post menopause.
She's not going to have a baby.
They have a close encounter
with three sky people,
and then they have Isaac.
And I believe that is
our familiar version
of the story of
Brahma and Saraswati,
who are the
progenitors of humanity
in the Vedic tradition.
So this is how significant
a story that is.
And then it's not
unique to the Bible.
The Yellow Emperor, the
mother of the Yellow Emperor.
Lao Tzu, according
to legend, his mother
had the same experience.
The Vipassi Buddha,
the 22nd incarnation
of Buddha before
Siddhartha Gautama.
But it's all the same story--
close encounter, anomalous
experience, and then
comes forth a child who is
highly intelligent, highly
conscious.
and significant.
Now, people might say, look,
these stories, clearly,
were invented to
give a bit of kudos
to these leaders, who
wanted a bit of mystique,
except there's an
even bigger context.
And that is that there are
women around the world today
who will describe the
same kind of experience,
an anomalous experience around
the conception of a child,
an anomalous experience of
light, an experience of light
at the birth of a child.
And I've heard from a number
of women who will say something
like I have four children,
the third one is different.
The third one has always
been very advanced, very
intelligent, very sensitive,
psychic kind of abilities.
And sometimes
they'll say, and he
says he has memories of
another life on another planet.
That's the context.
That is the family of stories
of which the story of Jesus
is a part.
And I think we only expand
our understanding of things
by putting it in
that big context,
and realizing it's
ancient and contemporary.
REGINA: Sean, would you like
to comment because we only
have a few minutes left.
And I want to bring up one
juicy little thing just
to throw out there for
a future conversation
between the three of us again.
OK.
So each take a couple
of minutes if you can.
And tell us how you think it
would benefit humanity best
to be able to view our place
not just within the cosmos,
but within this
pantheon of beings
that have been surrounding
us since the beginning.
O'LAOIRE: So I'm fascinated with
this concept of what's being
called convergent evolution.
And convergent
evolution is the theory
that the same kind of codex or
the same kind of genetic code
is going to create
similar creatures
in similar environments.
And so wherever you
get the code landing,
if the environment
is similar, you're
going to get the same kinds
of creatures evolving.
And I think the
other side of it is
the same code in different
kinds of environments is going
to create different creatures.
And so the code,
basically, is the logos,
as far as I'm concerned.
It's the word of God.
And so depending on the
environment in which it lands,
it's either going
to create creatures
that are going to
look like us or look
very differently from us,
but it's the same codex.
And it takes a different
environment in order
to articulate the code.
So I was fascinated hearing
an American astronaut
a few years ago from the ISS.
And he was asked
in an interview,
did you guys do any kind
of medical experimentation
on the ISS when you're away
from the forces of gravity?
They said, yeah, we did
medical experiments.
And when you're away from-- when
the gravity is much, much less,
it actually alters the
structure of matter.
And so he said, we did a bunch
of experiments and what we
found out was that
this alleged junk DNA,
which allegedly is 90% of DNA--
which is a ridiculous notion
that nature ever creates junk--
but that this junk DNA
needed the appropriate kind
of environment in which
to express itself.
So like the DNA or
the logos is filled
with all these extraordinary
algorithms of life.
REGINA: Yes.
O'LAOIRE: And it takes a
particular environment in order
to coax it into articulation.
And so a non-gravitational
environment
will produce a different
part of the genome.
And so depending on where
you live in the solar system,
in the galaxy,
you're in the cosmos
or whatever, whether you're
within an energy system,
the codex is going
to express itself
in other similar forms or
radically different forms,
but they're coming
from the same codex.
they're coming from the same
logos, the same word of God.
And so we're all
brothers and sisters
no matter what form we take.
REGINA: Just beautiful.
Thank you for that.
Paul.
WALLIS: I love that.
I would say that the classic
Orthodox religious view
of humanity is that we
have appeared on the planet
and our level of intelligence
and consciousness is fixed.
That's by Divine Fiat--
what you see is what you get.
And similarly, with the
classic evolutionary theory,
we've evolved to here.
Aren't we lucky?
That's as far as
we're going to get.
When I listen to the
ancestral stories,
I hear a different story.
I hear a story of
continual upgrades.
I hear a story where our
ancestors were better
able than us at accessing
higher cognitive powers,
but that those are
still latent, waiting
for us to activate them.
And it goes to
that junk DNA idea.
It's not junk DNA.
Some of that is ours,
waiting to be activated.
And in the ancestral
stories, the Indigenous
stories of the planet,
I hear an invitation
to explore what that
might look like.
How much better a human
experience is possible?
What are we really capable of?
REGINA: Just
beautiful, both of you.
I can't tell you how
grateful I am that you've
chosen to do this with us here.
So again, thank you.
I hope to see you again.
O'LAOIRE: God bless.
Hugs to you, Paul.
WALLIS: Yes, Thank you, both.
It's been a pleasure.
O'LAOIRE: Thanks.
REGINA: I hope you all
enjoyed these conversations
as much as I did.
And you can continue
to follow the stories
by going to
paulanthonywallis.com,
and for Sean,
spiritsinspacesuits.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."